This is a set of handy tools for preparing the backup on dvd/blu-ray disks.

1. atomize.sh  <- this tool finds files that are larger than specified size (by
default 512MB) and splits them into chunks. This is done to reach better
utilization of space on DVD/BD disks (ie. when file size is too big it might
not fit into a disk and empty space would be left). Run this tool especially if
there are many big files going to be recorder on the disk. 

2. split2Volumes.sh <- this one finds all files that are to be recorded on the
disk and creates *.list file for each volume. The maximum volume size can be
configured (to match e.g. either CD, DVD or BD capacity).  This *.list files
can be used with mkisofs to create *.iso images, eg:
   
mkisofs -o <vol-1.iso> -D -r -joliet-long -graft-points -path-list ./vol-1.list

3. unatomize.sh <- this script undoes the changes made by atomize.sh, i.e.  it
merges the files that were spli. Use this script after restoring data from
DVD/BD backup, so that the large files will return to their original form.


Usage or the tools.
===================

A. When there are only small files in the directory that is going to be backed
up (e.g. backing up images or mp3s) then use only split2Volumes.sh:
   
split2Volumes.sh [-r <relative-directory-name>] [-s cd/dvd/bdr] <directory-for-backup>

parameters: 

   directory-for-backup  - mandatory, specifies the directory to be backed up 

   relative-directory-name 	- optional, specifies the directory that should be
used as "root" in the resulting ISO filesystem.  By default it has the same
value as "directory-for-backup".

   size - optional, max size of resulting iso file (def is bdr, can be set to 
"cd", "dvd", "bdr" or number of bytes.
  
Example usages
--------------

Assume there are files to be backed up: 
/mnt
    /samba
        /archive
            /backup_20211125
                /file01.tgz
                /file02.tgz

Using the following:

split2Volumes.sh /mnt/samba/archive/backup_20211125 /mnt/samba/archive

-> will create the list of files from "backup_20211125" and in the resulting
ISO, files will be under directory "/backup_20211125":

/backup_20211125
    /file01.tgz
    /file02.tgz
	

split2Volumes.sh /mnt/samba/archive/backup_20211125

-> will create the list of files from "backup_20211125" and in the resulting
ISO, the path will start from "/":

/file01.tgz
/file02.tgz

Next, use mkisofs to generate *.iso files based on *.list files.
  

B. When there are some big files in the firectory (i.e. videos or some large
zip archives):
   
   ==> atomize files first.
   
In order to do that, copy the files that are to be backed up into a temporary
directory (don't work on original copy, as atomize.sh will cut the files into
pieces). Use the atomize.sh so that the DVD/BD media will be better utilized:
   
atomize.sh <directory-for-backup>

   ==> use split2Volumes.sh (as specified in point A)

If there is a need to restore the backup files:

- copy all DVD/BD into the HDD.
- run "unatomize.sh" tool which will merge the files that were "atomized".

